##Database
###Chapter 3 Review

The practical significance of taking the logical view of a database is that is serves
as a remider of the simple file concept of data storage

You can think of a table as a persistent representation of a logical relation

Because the relational model uses attribute values to establish relationships among tables,
many database users INCORRECTLY assume that the term "relation" refers to such relationships.

The order of the rows and columns is immaterial to the DBMS.

Numeric data are data on which you can perform meaningful arithmetic procedures.

Character data CANNOT contain any character or symbol intended for mathematical manipulation.

Each table in a relational database must have a primary key.

A proper understanding of the concept and use of keys in a relational database is very important.

If A determines B, C, D; you can write "A -> (B, C, D)".

Functional dependence refers to the value of one or more attribute determining the value of
one or more other attribute.

If the attribute (B) is functionally dependent on a composite key (A) but not on any subset of that
composite key, the attribute (B) is fully functionally dependent on (A).

A null is created when you press the enter or tab key to move to the next entry without making
a prior entry of any kind.

Nulls should be avoided when possible, but are needed at times.

A null can potentially create problems for the functions COUNT, AVERAGE, and SUM.

Tables within a database share common attributes that enable the tables to be linked together.

"A foreign key must existin in both tables that have a relationship" is an attempt to trick the reader,
because it is a foreign key in one table and a prime key in the other.

All RDBMSs do NOT enforce integrity rules automatically.

Referential integrity refers to the condition in which every reference to an entity instance by
another entity instance is valid. (No Foreign Keys that don't have a matching prime key).
Entity integrity is the condition in which each row (entity instance) in the table has its own 
unique identiy. Primary key must be unique, and no primary key subcomponents may be null.

Tables must have the same attribute characteristics (columns, domains are identical) to be eligible
for a UNION.

The DIFFERENCE operator subtracts one table from the other (leaving dissimilar rows).

The SELECT operator yields a horizontal subset of a table (as it selects by row).

In a natural join, the column on which the join was made occurs only once in the new table,
but appears twice in the equijoin. 

A left outer join on tables CUSTOMER and AGENT yields all the rows of the CUSTOMER table, including
those that do not have matching values in the AGENT table. 

The DIVIDE operation uses one single-column table (i.e. column "a") as the divisor and one 
two-column table ("a" and "b") as the dividend. 

A data dictionary contains metadata: data about data.

A data dictionary is sometimes described as "the database designer's database" because it 
records the design decisions about tables and their structures.

Current relational database software typically provides on a system catalog (and not a data dictionary).

The 1:M relationship is easily implemented in the relational model by putting the foreign key in the "many"
side, and a primary key in the "1" side.

As rare as 1:1 relationships are, certain conditions absolutely require their use.

DBMSs use indexes for many different purposes. 

Predicate logic, used extensively in mathematics, provides a framework in which an assertaion (statement
of fact) can be verified as either true or false.

The relational database model enables you to view data logically, rather than physically.

The relational model's creator, E. F. Codd, used the term relation as a synonym for "table".

A table is percieved as a 2D structure composed of rows and columns.

Date attributes contain calendar dates stored in the Julian format.

Logical data can only have a true or false condition.

In the relational model, keys are important because they ensure that each table row
in uniquely identifiable. 

In the context of a database table, the statement "A determines B" indicates that if you know the
value of A, you can look up the value of B.

The attribute B is functionally dependent on A if each value in column A determines 1 and only
1 value in column B. 

Any attribute that is part of a key is known as a key attribute.

If the attribute B is functionally dependent on a composite key A, but not on 
any subset of that composite key, then the attribute B is fully functionally dependent on A.

A superkey is any key that uniquely identifies a row.

No data entry at all is known as a NULL. 

Controlled redundancy makes a relational database work.

A relational schema is a textual representation of the database tables where each table
is listed by its name, followed by the list of its attributes in parantheses. 

In the following table description, PROD_CODE is the primary key:
   PRODUCT( PROD_CODE, PROD_DESCRIPTION, PROD_PRICE, VEND_CODE )

Referential integrity means that if the foreign key contains a value, that value refers to 
an existing valid tuple in another relation. 

A secondary key is defined strictly for data retrieval.

A candidate key is a minimal (irreducible) superkey.

All primary key entries are unique, and no part of a primary key may be null.

A CUSTOMER table's primary key is CUS_CODE. The CUSTOMER primary key column has no null entries,
and all entries are unique. This is an example of entity integrity. 

The NOT NULL constraint can be placed on a column to ensure that every row in the table has a value
for that column. 

To be considered minimally relational, the DBMS must support the key relational operators
SELECT, PROJECT, and JOIN. 

UNION combines all rows from 2 tables, excluding duplicate rows. 

INTERSECT yields only the rows that appear in both tables.

SELECT, also known as RESTRICT, yields values for all rows found in a table that
satisfy a given condition. 

PROJECT yields a vertical subset of a table.

A natural join links tables by selecting only the rows with common values in their common attributes.

The equijoin takes its name from the comparison operator, =, used in the condition.

In an outer join, the matched pairs would be retained and any unmatched values in the other table
would be left null. 

A data dictionary contains at least all of the attribute names and characteristics for each
table in the system. 

The system catalog is actually a system-created database whose tables store the user/designer-
created database characteristics and contents. 

In a database context, the word "homonym" indicates the use of the same name to label 
different attributes.

In a adatabase context, the word "synonym" indicates the use of different names to describe
the same attribute.

1:M is the "relational ideal".

1:1 should be rare in design. 

Since it is used to link the tables that originally were related in a M:N relationship,
the composite entity structure includes -as foreign keys- at least the primary keys of
the table are to be linked. 

An index is an ordered arrangement of keys and pointers. 

When you define a table's primary key, the DBMS automatically creates a unique index
on the primary key columns you declared. 

Codd's rule of Logical Data Independence states: Application programs and ad hoc facilities 
are largely unaffected when changes are made to the table structures that preserve the original 
table values (changing order of column or inserting columns).

The logical view of the relational database is facilitated by the creation of data relationships 
based on a logical constuct known as a relation. 

In a relational table, each column has a specific range of values known as the attribute domain. 

In the relational model, keys are important because they are used to ensure that each row in a 
table is uniquely identifiable.

Attribute A determines attribute B (that is, B is functially dependent on A) if all the rows in
the table agree that in value for attribute A also agree in value for attribute B. 

A candidate key can be described as a superkey without any unnecessary attributes. 

If the foreign key contains either matching values or nulls, the table that makes use of the foreign
key is said to exhibit referential integrity. 

The following example exhibits entity integrity:
The CUSTOMER table’s primary key is CUS_CODE. The CUSTOMER primary key column has no null entries, 
and all entries are unique. Similarly, the AGENT table’s primary key is AGENT_CODE, 
and this primary key column also is free of null entries.

TO avoid nulls, some designers use special codes, known as flags, to indicate absense of some value.

The relational operators have the property of closure; that is, the use of relational algebra
operators on existing tables (relations) produces new relations.

PRODUCT yields all possible pairs of rows from two tables- also known as the Cartesian product. 

JOIN is the real power behind the relational database, allowing the use of independent tables
linked by common attributes.

An equijoin links tables on the basis of an equality condition that compares specified columns
of each table. 

Outer joins are especially useful when you are trying to determine what values in related
tables cause referential integrity problems. 

A data dictionary provides a detailed description of all tables found within the user/designer-
created database. 

The system catalog can be described as a detailed system data dictionary that describes 
all objects within the database, including data about table names, the table’s creator and creation date, 
the number of columns in each table, the data type corresponding to each column, index filenames, 
index creators, authorized users, and access privileges.

The 1:M relationship is the relational database norm.

If one department chair—a professor—can chair only one department and one department can have only one 
department chair, then the entities PROFESSOR and DEPARTMENT exhibit a 1:1 relationship.

M:N relationships can be implemented by creating a new entity in 1:M relationships with 
the original entities. 

Fortunately, the problems inherent in the M:N relationship can be easily avoided by
creating a composite entity. 

The proper use of foreign keys is crucial to controlling data redundancy.

Proper data warehousing design requires carefully defined and controlled data redundancies to 
function properly.

An index is an orderly arrangement used to logically access rows in a table. 

A unique index is an index in which the index key can have only one pointer value (row)
associated with it. 

The index key can have multiple attributes, this is called a composite index.

Codd's rule of guaranteed access states that every value in a table is guaranteed to be accessable 
through a combination of tabel name, primary key value, and column name. 

What are the characteristics of a relational table?

   A table is percieved as a 2D structure composed of rows and columns.
   Each row (tuple) represents a single entity occurence within the entity set.
   Each table column represents an attribute, and each column has a distinct name. 
   Each row/column intersection represents a single data value. 
   All values in a column must conform to the same data format.
   


What is a key and why is it important in the relational model?

   In the relational model, keys are important because they are used to ensure that
   each row in a table is uniquely identifiable. They are also used to establish relationships 
   among tables and to ensure the integrity of the data. Therefore, a proper understanding of the 
   concept and use of keys in the relational model is very important. A key consists of one or more
   attributes that determine other attributes. For example, an invoice number identifies all of the
   invoice attributes, such as the date and customer name. 


Describe the use of nulls in a database.

   Nulls can never be part of a primary key, and they should be avoided to the greatest
   extent possible in all attributes. There are rare cases where they are completely unavoidable,
   but minimizing the existence of nulls is a reflection of sophisticated database design.


Describe the use of the UNION operator.

   UNION combines all rows from 2 tables, excluding duplicate rows. The tables must have the same 
   attributes and attribute domains. When 2 or more tables share the same number of columns, with the
   same column names, and domains, they are said to be union-compatible. 


What is the system catalog?

   Like the data dictionary, the system catalogue contains metadata. It can be described as a 
   detailed system data dictionary that descibes all objects within the database, including data 
   about the table names, table's creator, creation date, etc. Most systems only contain the system
   catalogue, and not the full data dictionary. 
